Hello everybody and welcome to this challenge video.
By the end of it we'll be going through everything necessary to make a sunset like the one you're seeing
in front of you here.
Hello everyone and welcome back.
Here is a reminder of the challenge itself were going to make our own sunset.
I might not change the scene itself.
I may keep the one that we saw in the example.
But if you wanted to you could go ahead and add street lamps houses lights coming on at dusk et cetera
et cetera.
And just an idea of where I'm going with this is this animation here.
The sun setting and then dipping below the horizon.
So without any further ado let's get into it.
OKC opening up gimping getting into it straightaway it's go create a new image now thinking of a sunset.
I think it would be much better if it was a wider aspect than we do 1 to 8 by 64 I don't think I need
that much in the way of heights.
Now I'm going to create a new layer and called it the sky.
Now once it's called Sky I'm gonna use a gradient fill and pick a blue type colour.
And that the sky tends to be blue or directly above.
So we can mimic that by doing something along these lines.
Oh wrong way remember foreground to background.
So there we go the elongate that fits and what.
Right now I am happy with that as the sky.
Now the ground itself there are a couple of ways of managing this.
In this case I'm going to create a new layer.
And because the ground's going to maybe be up to half way up and reduce the height down to 32 when I
go ahead and pop that on I can now go and move the actual source layer itself and making sure we move
the active layer.
Move it down to this half here.
If I don't do that and then do a gradient fill for the ground as well.
Let's do this now.
Let's go and add a darker green just a little bit darker.
Out there it's foreground to the background.
Remember the way it goes.
So this is going to be the background colour so the further away light agreeing now I can go from here
to here and will get that gradient filled.
So that's great.
This is it.
In fact a bit too much in the way of you know the ground it's taking up far too much of my scenes and
going to move the active player and just move down ever so slightly maybe trying to get in the lower
third of our screen.
So there we go.
There's our layers there.
Everything else is going to be in between all the scheme That's called it groundlessly my layers appropriately
to our ground here.
And then we need our sun as well.
Let's go ahead and make a sun.
Now in this case I know I'm going to end up blurring it just because I've done this before in with that
in mind I'm going to make it 64 by 64 so I've got a bit of extra space around my son as you can see
here it's taking up quite a large portion of the screen but it also helped me keep my file sizes down
as well just as I'm developing.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to plop a big yellow sun in the scene.
I'm quite happy with being there.
Perhaps a little higher if we're doing a sunset or maybe even a little lighter as well if I'm going
to go to my fire code palette at this point in time.
So I've got a much better selection of colours so I'm going to make this a little bit lighter at this
point.
I could have raised it but I'm just going to go smack bang on the top and put that under here.
And then I'm just going to test moving the active layer making sure it disappears below the horizon.
Excellent.
I'm not gonna bother with any clouds in my scene at the moment.
I'm simply going to grab what I've got here and remove the background and make sure we don't need any
superfluous layers and I'm happy with that as my basic layers so I'm going to call this frame hash one
and puts everything in the appropriate way into that frame.
Finally I'm going to grab the frame itself so I can see the one behind it so I can have a better progression.
I'm going to lower the capacity of that frame basically so I can just see the room.
Each one as I go and I unlink sky.
So now it's just a matter of producing the extra frames with the sun going below the horizon.
And to do that is a matter of duplicating the frame.
Finding the sun itself and then moving it.
And of course I can see the previous frame through that layer.
I I'm not going to bore you with doing this on screen.
However I will just speed up the video so you can see me go through the process.
Okay now this point here I've done about five frames and what I'm really thinking of at this point in
time is whether or not I'm going to have the sun changing colour as it goes down and whether I do that
now or in a bit.
Now I am hoping that the overlay that I'll put on some of these as it's dropping behind in fact about
here is the time I'm going to do the overlay So create a new layer at this point and I'm going to call
it darkness.
It does need to be the full size of the image because it's going to change everything which it will
be.
With that now this darkness is an overlay on top of everything else and I'm going to start by giving
everything a slightly orange tint of course when I fill it in it will disappear completely.
Now this is going to be the challenge here I must remember that the past he says 60 the only to turn
it up.
So get a realistic feeling of what's happening within this dark with this darkness layer.
Because if I've already got a pastie on the top one I'm not to see what's really happening.
Glenn said that darkness lay here.
Let's try it at maybe 10 percent.
And then I'm going to flip between the previous frame.
Again I'm going to have to ramp that up to a hundred percent so I can see what's going on.
So that's that one.
And then that's this one.
And there is a very subtle difference.
I'm happy with that difference.
Then as I go ahead and duplicate the rest in fact in this case I am going to continue moving the sun
and I'll worry about changing the darkness as I go making the tint.
I think that's the way I'm going to approach this so that's carry on duplicating these frames and then
moving them to the appropriate location.
Now as I'm doing this one of the things I am doing is athome going and progressing and changing those
colours as I go down to the darkness layer that I've got is actually changing colour each time.
Whether or not I changed the sun at the same time perhaps perhaps to the same colour.
It is an option.
Fortunately I'm just going down here on the colour palette itself.
The worse that happens is that it doesn't work out.
Now the question is whether or not I can see those changes remember any point you can solo particular
sections and make sure that as it's changing it's changing appropriately.
By the looks of this as some flicking between knees I am going to have to increase the capacity of this
darkness layer as it goes up.
I'll worry about that in a bit but I will continue changing the colour of the darkness and the colour
of the sun as it drops below the horizon.
Now I don't think I'm going to get deep enough red at this point but I will say it's Carry on duplicating
and I'll see you again soon.
Now a matter to frame 15 here for Sun has dipped below the horizon.
I do not need any more sunlight.
Some going to delete.
That's the next time I duplicate it.
It's not going to be an issue.
Finally it's a matter of just controlling this darkness layer as I go through and making it progressively.
The increase in that capacity and making increasingly dark at this point and don't do a rapid progression
up to my 20 frames that I've arbitrary decided am going to do 10 frames per second so I end up with
two seconds worth of information.
Now here I can go through and say and in this case work backwards from what I want the darkest frame
to look like.
So go ahead make that dark and raise this up.
I can still see the horizon but not white.
Then this darkness here I'm going to move it's slightly bluer and then add that in and then preview
it here and oscillate between the two.
It is important that you go between two states that are close to one another and make sure that it's
not going to make a horrendous jump.
So here I'm going to make sure the darkness is slightly different.
In fact I think a just coloured in the wrong one.
How here is going to have an increase.
The pastie as well.
And this is going to be the case all the way through.
As the sun starts setting obviously not too strong.
That's darker.
This gotta be lighter.
This one's gotta be lighter again but not that light.
Let's just increase the A pastie and switch between these two.
That's too close.
So what do we have here with the a passive t e is at all why else only to watch.
Further down that the A pastie of these frames is unjust and I think I did switch it up beforehand.
I will just double check.
So that one is fifty six and this one is kind of the same.
So we need to it's 54 So yes it's very close.
We'll go for around 40 on that one to switch between the two.
Yes I'm happy there and we're getting to the point now where the sun did disappear and that's one sense.
This is fine.
Lift this up.
I think we got the colours about right here and see what that looks like.
So the sun is setting and faded away that's apsey fine.
Now the frame 15 lets go through and I'm just repeating this now ad for the sunset must see.
Back in a few moments.
Okay so I have an idea of frayn's now as I'm going through I'm going to test my animation by going to
the animator and just seeing how it plays back and I'm going to play it back at a slower speed.
So I've got a good time to appreciate each individual frame as it goes down.
Now that's actually looks really nice.
I'm happy with that.
And something weird happens on something on frame nine days thing happened.
There are the capacity's and everything I do and turn those back up to a hundred percent now that I
finished looking at each individual layer and the next thing I would need to do or don't need to do.
It's not really a necessity but I do want to add some stars into my scene as well.
Some good attorneys up to 100 percent and I'll see you back in a few moments where we start doing the
stars.
Found the issue here I changed the darkness of the past the values of the darkness.
Here in the wrong order so that one should be the five.
This one should be the ten Not sixty four that would look odd.
Miss when I'm gone for ten again let's increase that to maybe 20.
This one is at twenty's Well let's go for 30.
This one is at 30 that's go for 40.
And again this is all about experimentation at this point.
Is it going to work for what youre doing at the time.
It might not.
Then 50 40 in an it comes back down again because these colours these dark darker colours are going
to show through a little bit more.
So lets go and test that again and then its a matter of going through and adding Yeah thats much much
smoother now thats good.
So lets go through an ADD stars.
So we need to decide Im on which frame do the stars actually appear.
So the sun itself isn't set.
Intill frame 14 something about frame 15 all note that's still too light.
That's still too light I think framed 16 is going to be the right one and I'm just going to get my pencil
tool and then go for a white subs a star the lower the size of that brush down to one and then of course
put a dot.
Now I don't have a star's layer at the moment so let's go ahead and create that stars layer.
Now the stars layer itself is going to be the same size as the Cambers so I can put stars anywhere I
want Unger put my first star up there.
Now in duplicate that stars layer and move it up to the next frame since it doesn't exist there already
said Now I have an existing star there.
I can bring out another two stars perhaps and then I'm going to duplicate that layer again and just
fill in these final three frames.
And there we go I've got my final Starfield So let's go have a look at how the animation plays out and
then of course it's just a matter of exporting it.
Yeah there we go.
If I think he looks better than before so I'm going to go ahead and save my work which I haven't done
yet.
GS Well under in these challenges I'm bad at saving.
I do apologize and let's go through here and while I don't know which lecture were unfit or fourteens.
There you go.
sun sets and stars.
So there we go there's my gimp file saved.
I'm going to have to compress these down so I'm also going to make a new farce straightaway by saving
as and call this flaten.
Now I always recommend making this flaten file as a separate FA because the worst thing in the world
to do would be to suddenly compress all of these labour groups together and then literally be unable
to edit them easily because once you've done this for instance manipulating the stars position or just
changing a frame around is going to be next to impossible.
In fact what we've done here with all this blending this darkness this overlay that we've got there
it would be literally a wouldn't be impossible.
I'm not going to say that but it would be a lot of hard work to try and fix that where you could have
avoided it in the first place.
Always be thinking forward.
Never be afraid to use loads of layers.
That's absolutely fine.
Now in this particular case I could go through and optimize it further.
I'm not going to at this point that's a conscious decision but I am going to go through and now save
the flattened version and then export as and call Its which is opened up elsewhere and call it the same
thing dot Giff and now contains layers extend the and the actual borders that's fine.
Just warning me under to lose information by doing this and the delay between the frames and I'm going
to make sure I'm replacing.
And let's have a look at what that looks like.
So here we go.
That looks pretty sweet to me but what I will do just to make sure that everybody can see it properly
is at this point.
I'm going to turn up my image size with the interpellation turned to none and I'm going to make sure
it's linked together and how can I make it five 12 in size and scale that is now going to be much bigger.
But I still have that pixel art feel about it.
I'm going to export to overwriting the previous file so I don't have to change any of those settings.
Take a few seconds to do.
And now there we go it's much bigger and you guys can see it more clearly.
Excellent.
How did you guys get on.
Love to see what you did with your sunset's or whether you went on a slightly different tangent and
bought a house there with the lights coming on and off Wall Street lights etc..
Love to see it do share your work in the discussions and I will see you old in the next lecture.